#AL# Alphabetic, non-exhaustive list of cryptocurrencies and systems
I've spent some time analyzing/understanding, with some comments.

Apla.io https://apla.io/White_Paper.pdf

Bitcoin (BTC): https://blockchain.info/ Hashrate: 1e19 A block every
10 minutes.

Blockstack -- ecosystem of apps around blockchain something something.
Has DNS, a storage system.

Bytecoin (BCN): "The first private untraceable
cryptocurrency". https://bytecoin.org/ Capitalization $2B as of early 2018.

Corda: similar to swirlds. A sprawling java-based ecosystem for financial
transaction applications. Wants to be like FIX for all transaction types,
and even allows for humans to be part of the business process. Nodes run
a special deterministic JVM. Consensus is abstracted into "notary pools".
https://www.corda.net/content/corda-platform-whitepaper.pdf

Cosmos: Tendermint-based multichain with hub for sending messages.
Not clear how it works.

http://culedger.com/ -- does culedger use swirlds? Believes in
permissioned distributed ledger (Distributed Ledger Technology
(DLT)). I guess DLT is a txn? Then it's not hashgraph. Todo explain.

Culedger's report on cryptocurrencies:
http://www.ofnumbers.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Permissioned-distributed-ledgers.pdf

Dash: digital cash (https://www.dash.org/) Originally XCoin, or maybe
dark coin. Based on bitcoin. Big on features.  "decentralized
autonomous organization" - DAO. DAO means that the rules that govern
the network (namely the creation and allocation of transaction
rewards) are somehow registered in the blockchain itself. Uses a
network of masternodes, which are rewarded for validating, storing and
serving blockchain to users. And presumably approving transactions. So
it is not settled as fast as they say it is.  Has private transactions
via "enhanced coinjoin".  Compact blocks? Graphene? What are
these. Ryan Taylor CEO.  Graphene - is bad, I have looked at their
code. They try to do Proof of Stake. Written by kids.

Ethereum (ETH): "smart contracts" - turing complete programs (written
in Solidity or Serpent) executed on ethereum virtual machine (EVM). A
transaction sends ether from A to B, and if B is a contract, its
associated code executes. Sender must pay for recipient computation
cycles. Contract addresses have unbounded key/value stores
attached. All state is stored in the last block using Patricia tree (a
variant of Merkle tree) and appended back to the blockchain.  Uses
ASIC-resistant mining, produces a block every ~15 seconds Original
Vitalik Buterin white paper:
https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper
	
Holochain: wtf is that https://github.com/metacurrency/holochain

HyperLedger Fabric: developed by Linux Foundation, permissioned
blockchain. Supports smart contracts, "chaincode".

Lightning: "payment channel" overlay for bitcoin, using PGP nature of
bitcoin transactions to construct a longer chain of payments before
committing final in/out values to the blockchain.
https://medium.com/@lightning_network/lightning-protocol-1-0-compatibility-achieved-f9d22b7b19c4

Multichain.com: Some company?

NEM: is a peer-to-peer cryptocurrency platform. It is used in a
commercial blockchain called Mijin, tested mainly in Japan, by
financial institutions and private companies.

Parity: (https://www.parity.io/: "the fastest and most secure"), see
hacks.txt.

Polkadot: introduces validators, fishermen, collators, nominators, Not
implemented. But idea due to Gavin Wood, Ethereum co-creator
https://polkadot.network/PolkaDotPaper.pdf Fishermen look logically
unsound (if validator can make a mistake proposing a block, even under
consensus, then so can a fisherman. Worse, fisherman can now attack a
valid block).

Ripple (XRP): Ripple Consensus Protocol Algorithm - Ripple protocol
requires each node to define a Unique Node List (UNL). The UNL
comprises of other Ripple nodes that are trusted by the given node not
to collude against it (HOW?). Consensus in the Ripple network is
achieved by each node by consulting other nodes in its UNL. Each UNL
has to have a 40% overlap with other nodes in the Ripple network
[12]. Consensus happens in multiple rounds where each node collects
transactions in a data structure called "candidate set" and broadcasts
its candidate sets to other nodes in its UNL. Nodes validate the
transactions, vote on them and broadcast the votes. Based on the
accumulated votes, each node refines its candidate set and
transactions receiving the largest number of votes are passed to the
next round. When a candidate set receives a super-majority of 80% of
votes from all nodes in the UNL, the candidate set becomes a valid
block or in Ripple terms a "ledger". This ledger is finalized and
considered the "Last Closed Ledger (LCL)" and added to the Ripple
blockchain by each node. Next round of consensus is started with newer
transactions and pending transactions that did not make it into the
last round of consensus. Consensus in the entire network is reached
when each individual sub-network reaches consensus.

Stellar (XLM): what is it?  Litecoin (LTC): bitcoin with 8x larger
blocks, 2.5m threshold Namecoin: a registry of unique strings (kind of
cool).  Colored coin: bitcoin, but each transaction has a color
tag. Why?  Cardano (ADA): ?  SWIFT: Run by 7 banks. Connects 11,000
financial institutions. 24M/transactions a day.

Swirlds:
http://www.swirlds.com/;
Hashgraph algorithm Leemon Baird - CTO, their smart guy.
Hashgraph whitepaper:
http://www.swirlds.com/downloads/SWIRLDS-TR-2016-01.pdf Hashgraph
site: https://hashgraph.com/ Swirlds SDK - in Java - uses armed bear
common lisp (common lisp over jvm), portmapper, what does swirlds
mean?

Tendermint: single blockchain with byzantine fault tolerance (BFT)
which is nothing more than voting Question is, is there a weak link in
the supply chain?

TON: Telegram Open Network.  Based on Polkadot + Cosmos with a message
routing optimization (over Cosmos) And a load balancing algorithm.  I
will call this whitepaper TON2017:
https://denull.ru/telegram/ton-tech.pdf Polkadot's validators can
invalidate any blockchain block, so there is no immutability here
after all. How block invalidation happens is completely not clear.

zcash: https://z.cash/ based on bitcoin but uses privacy preserving
(zero knowledge of sender, receiver, or amount) transactions using a
concept of zk-SNA RK (Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument
of Knowledge; succinct = takes a few milliseconds to verify;
non-interactive = sender/receiver don't have to communicate).  each
transaction is 2, routing from shielded sender to transparent
intermediary to shielded receiver. there are 2 coins: basecoin
(public) and zerocoin (private).  Zcash had a "hidden randomness
generation ceremony" (https://z.cash/technology/paramgen.html), where
they subsequently blowtorched computers that had access to the secret
information. Communication between airgapped computers was done via
append-only DVDs.

TRADITIONAL SYSTEMS
Amex
Cash
Discover
Mastercard
Paypal - Centralized system that appears as an intermediary.
Visa
Zelle
(https://www.zellepay.com/index.php/support/what-is-zelle) - a 2-step
money transfer system that notifies recipient via e-mail or sms

